[DOCS] Opster Migration: Add errors to troubleshooting pages (#1116)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/elasticsearch/failed-to-parse-field-of-type.md

---
applies_to:
  stack: 
  deployment:
    eck: 
    ess: 
    ece: 
    self: 
navigation_title: "Error: failed to parse field of type in document with id"
# is mapped_pages needed for newly created docs?
---

# Fix failed to parse field of type in document with id [failed-to-parse-field-of-type]

```console
Error: failed to parse field [field] of type [type] in document with id [id]
```

This error occurs when you try to index a document into an existing index, and one of your fields' values doesn't match the expected data type. {{es}} rejects the document when it encounters incompatible values, like a string in a numeric field or an invalid IP address.

To fix, ensure the field's value matches the expected data type in the mapping.

> ## Understand field types and mapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overview: Field types and mapping
```

> By default, {{es}} uses [dynamic mappings](../../manage-data/data-store/mapping/dynamic-field-mapping.md) to infer a field's type based on the **first value indexed** when no explicit mapping exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When no explicit mapping exists, {{es}} uses [dynamic mappings](../../manage-data/data-store/mapping/dynamic-field-mapping.md) to infer a field's type based on the **first value indexed**.
```

For example, if you index:

```console
PUT test/_doc/1
{
  "ip_address": "179.152.62.82",
  "boolean_field": "off"
}
```

> Without explicit mapping, {{es}} will treat `ip_address` and `boolean_field` as `text` which may not be what is intended. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without explicit mapping, {{es}} will treat `ip_address` and `boolean_field` as `text`, which might not be the intended result. 
```

> To avoid this, define your mapping explicitly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid this, define the mapping explicitly:
```

```console
PUT test
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "ip_address": { "type": "ip" },
      "boolean_field": { "type": "boolean" }
    }
  }
}
```

## Troubleshoot and resolve the error

> 1. Check the mapping of your index:

Author: Ok I prefer this!

> ```console
> GET your-index-name/_mapping
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```console
        GET your-index-name/_mapping
    ```
```

Reviewer: (so that it appears "inside" the list item)
